hi dr. John with pro chiropractic and
today we're talking about three foam
roller stretches that you absolutely
need to know if you've got sore lower
legs so if you're a hiker if you're a
trail runner or maybe you're a gal
that's walked around all day and high
heels and just soar in those calves and
lower legs foam roller stretching is a
great way to get loosened up to feel
better so because he's going to
demonstrate a couple of these and we're
going to start with the shins
so that front part of the leg muscles
are in there or the tibialis anterior
and you know a common problem that we'll
notice with this is something called
shin splints but you can really mobilize
the lower part of the leg nicely
planting the hands getting the shins
right on the foam roller and rolling
slowly back and forth a foam roller
stretching is important to remember that
30 to 90 seconds per body part is all
you need if you spend 5 2 minute 5 10 10
minutes on each area you are going to be
too sore and actually caused a little
bit of injury so this is a great way to
get those front part of the shins
loosened up now we're going to go to
another stretch and this is for the
calves so the muscles on the back part
of our leg there's two muscles in here
one is called the gastrocnemius and one
is called the soleus one of those
muscles crosses the knee and one doesn't
so you want to make sure you go clear
from the Achilles tendon up a little bit
past the knee when you do this stretch
this one can be really sore our calves
especially if we've been hiking or
moving up and down hills walking in
those high heels they can really be
tender and so you want to start easy
with a foam roll that's the right kind
of firmness not too far to start with
now we can make this one a little more
intense by crossing one leg
directly over the widest part or the
belly of the muscle this one gets pretty
intense in there so again not more than
30 seconds starting out and work to a
maximum of about 90 seconds or a minute
and a half okay last one we're gonna do
focuses on the hip flexor what we call
the psoas muscle and where that Soyuz
muscle insert so the important thing
here is position so Kinzie is gonna
rotate her hips here so the front part
of her hip is right against that using
her arms to stabilize her and their
other leg to take a little pressure off
she's rolling right through the front
part of her hip now if you have a tight
hip flexor you're definitely gonna
notice this on this stretch if you don't
feel a lot of tenderness in here it's a
good area to stretch out anyway to
prevent future problems but if you've
been spending a lot of times in the
mountains hiking biking trail running a
lot of up and down Hill is you should
have some tenderness in this area and
this is a great stretch so again to
summarize we have three different
stretches one for the lower leg on the
front one for the calves on the back and
one for the hip flexor great stretches
if you're out there and in the beauty of
Montana or anywhere else so if you want
more information log on to our website
click the link below we've got some
great reports and some other videos that
you can link to at ProCare OMT calm
again dr. John Wilhelm sports medicine
specialist thing